---
title: "Storytime: How I came to work on Guildflow"
description: Don’t let your group be held for random by any service tool.
layout: "single-basic"
---

{{< vimeo 457925107 >}}

Hi everybody. My name is Michael Zornek and I am the founder of Guildflow. Today I want to tell the story about how I came to build Guildflow. 

When I was finishing up college and starting to enter my working career I attended a lot of meetups. A lot of them were technical some of them based on programming and they were really good.

Uh, I learned a lot of different technologies. I met people who eventually became dear friends. Uh, I even had some work opportunities with a lot of consulting gigs, cause I was doing self contracting at the time. Um, so that was great. Uh, then you fast forward, many years later into my career and I found myself helping to run one of the, uh, iOS developer, uh, meetups here in Philadelphia called Coco heads.
And, uh, it went really well. Um, it started as a smaller group out of a coworking space called indie hall. And then later as we were starting to grow out the group, uh, we actually joined meetup.com, which at the time, when it was kind of new. Um, and for a couple of years, that work really, really well. Uh, we got some good exposure through meetup.com and we used it as kind of like our central calendar.
Um, but as time went on, uh, we had a problem where. Meetup.com was generally just getting a little stagnant. We didn't really see a lot of interesting features come out. We saw a lot of branding updates, but they really didn't relate to the problems we were having. Um, we also, like in general, I would say we, we felt like they were charging more than they were earning as far as value goes.
Not enough to like warrant any like big chains or shake up, but there's definitely something on our minds. Um, the other thing, like this point where it was like, it was starting to sink in that like, We didn't have access to the, you know, the member data of our group. Like, so we didn't actually have a list of emails of our members, which was a little concerning.
Um, but even still, we kind of just kept moving ahead. I mean, we, you know, we had other bigger things to worry about. Um, so this goes, continues to go on for a little bit. And then, uh, meetup.com is purchased by a company called rework. Um, we work is in the coworking space and I've been following them for a long time.
I generally do not think of them in a very favorable manner, um, from a business standpoint and even just how they work and treat people. I just wasn't really a fan. Um, and so the concern was like, well, what is we were going to do with meetup.com? Um, and early on it to seem like they bought them to kind of help push this, you know, marketing agenda of like helping recommend a, we work office spaces as the venue for a meet up, um, which isn't too bad.
But then there was this little, there was always this concern, like they were going to start to like solve it, the member data some way, um, And I wasn't really a fan. And just looking at rework, I felt we work was just in a dangerous this position. Um, yeah. And the, the big question at that point was like, is meetup.com even going to be around in a couple for years.
Um, and so I started working on a project. Uh, it was a side project. It wasn't like my main endeavor at the time I was, I still am a consultant. And so in between projects, uh, I started to tinker with things, um, learning some different web technologies because at the time I was doing a lot of iOS development and, uh, while I was working on, on the side project, it was kind of interesting because there was an event where meetup.com had started to push this, uh, kind of like.
Beta behavior where they were going to start charging the table, uh, like $2 a head to go to events. Um, every single, a ton of negative backlash. And, um, it was fun because at that moment, like I was already working and like a meetup.com competitor. And then there's all these other ones that kind of sprouted up, uh, in, in the meantime, uh, based off of that event.
But, um, I continued to work on my project, uh, sometimes more part time than full time. Um, definitely over the last couple of months has been more full time, but, um, yeah, it was kind of, you know, interesting. And so the project has now become known as Guild flow. Um, it is a legit meetup.com competitor. Um, and I, over time as I've started to like, um, interview people in documents, you know, the concerns and what works and what's not working.
Um, the, the decision has been made to basically focus Gulf flow on technical meetups. Um, I feel like there's a lot of opportunity to evolve in that space with some features that. Meetup.com even in its post, uh, we work acquisition, uh, it's not really looking to, to offer, um, some, uh, that already done are things like privacy and data ownership, whichever, you know, Rudy, you know, root concerns of mine as a meetup, uh, organizer.
Um, but yeah, there's, there's, there's lots of other features in the works, uh, specifically geared toward technical meet ups, but, um, And yeah, I mean, that's, that's basically the story so far. I mean, right now meet up.com is doing its thing. And Guild flow is in beta. We have a couple of groups using it. Uh, we've got the gold flow, a book, which is like a, uh, open source book that is about how to start and grow a technical based meetup.
Um, it's interesting because the book is more about people and obviously the Gilbert flow is much more about software. Um, so there's two kind of like two, uh, things going on there. They're very related, but the res they're very separate. The book itself is open source. Um, so you can definitely check that out and, uh, give feedback as it's, uh, coming together.
Um, Gut flow. The product itself is in beta and yeah, if you were interested in trying it out or you've got feedback, uh, I would love to hear it, but I'm at basically the story so far. Um, I'll probably do another one of these in a couple of months. His deal flow starts to, you know, mature more, but, uh, yeah, I am really happy with how it's coming along and I really want to thank you for checking it out and your interest in the story.
Uh, if you've got any feedback, let me know. Um, If you're running a group, I would love to hear about it regardless of your interesting kill flow. I'm just, as I'm writing a book, I'm learning to, I'm hoping to learn more from people, actively running groups out there, but, uh, yeah. Thanks a lot for your time and we'll see you next time.
Bye. Bye.